---
slug: intro-day5
title: Day 5 of Class 
author: Alex Roffey
tags: [Training, DotNet]
---	
	
	# Outline
		C# Syntax
			- Entities, Services, Values and what we use them for
			- Language features for creating the above
		
			- Collections
				- Arrays, lists, dictionaries, stacks, etc.
			- Generics
				- So we don't have to create specific things
			- Enumerating stuff (looping, going through collections and looking at their items)
			- Parameterizing behavior
				- Delegates
				- Interfaces
			- Intro to LINQ (Language Integrated Query)
				- More on enumerating things (Ienumerable)
				- Extension methods
				- Anonymous objects (values without a name)
				
	Objects are "thingies" we can do stuff do. Objects have *affordances* (handles, knobs, switches: mechanisms for interaction)
		BankAccount
			Get the balance 'account.GetBalance();
			Make a deposit 'account.Deposit(100);
			Make a withdrawal 'account.Withdraw(80);
	
	*Command-Query Responsibility Separation* - (CQRS) 
		Keep commands/methods separate from queries
	
	# Some objects we call "Entities"
		These are objects that are in some way "specific". They are related to a real "thing".
		That two instances of an entity are considered equal if they have the same identifier.
		
		Objects that are "tracked" by an ID.
		The behaviors on an entity are ALL ABOUT the thing identified by that specific entity.
	
	# Some objects we call "Values"
		An object that is compared to other objects based on their "value".
		If you have two instances of the same date, does it matter 
		"DTO" - Data transfer objects
		Records are really great for expressing that an object is a DTO, or not an entity, etc.. Just, "here is the receipt"
		
	
	# Some objects we call "Services"

	Parametric Polymorpism = allows a single piece of code to be given a "generic" type, using variables in place of actual types, and then instantiated with particular types as needed.
	
	
	# Defensive (Paranoid) Coding
	
	## Old Skool 
	
	- ex: Account.Deposit(-1000);
	- You have to speculate a lot. More bomb proof but more code to be maintained, but much may not even get used.
	- Before we had unit tests
	- The assumption is "you ARE going to need it"
	
	## New Skool
	- This is hippy-dippy-free-love time.
	- "Open World vs. Closed World"

	## Modes of Programming
	###Application Devloper
		- Get to deployed code as quickly as possible.
		
	### Library Developer
		- You are writing code that will be used by teams out of the context in which you wrote it.
	
	Out parameters - in this case, if it is able to parse, it assigns the results to "score" so the value can be used
	    if(int.TryParse(Console.ReadLine(), out var score))
	    {
	    }
	
	Delegate keyword - look this up!
	
	=> is read as "goes to"
	
	Extension Methods:
		Only can be used in static classes on static methods
	
	Lazy Evaluation & Enumerables
