---
slug: intro-day4
title: Day 4 of Class 
author: Alex Roffey
tags: [Training, DotNet]
---
	# Outline:
		- Test Doubles
			dummies
			stubs
			Mocks
			Fakes
		- Review of Loose Coupling Patterns
		- TDD Kata 1 AND 2
		- Back to C# Syntax
			- Classes
				□ Methods
				□ Properties
				□ Constuctors
			- Generics and collections
			- Enumerables and looping
		
	## CUPID (Dan North)
		An update to the SOLID principles
			### Composable  
				- Prefer composition over inheritance. Inheritance is tight coupling.
				- Lots of little pieces working together for a requirement
				- "Plays well with others"
				- Emphasize encapsulation
					- The WHAT something does is way more important than how it does it.
				- Design of your programmatic interface (the description of what it does) is the primary thing, the implementation is important but secondary
			### Unix Philosophy
				- Small focused bits of functionality
				- Better to have a bunch of small tools that can work together than one big one that does everything.
			### Predictable
				- Follows the "principle of least surprise" - does what you think it will do (expresses intent)
			### Idiomatic
				- "Feels natural"
				- Use the language and "idioms" of that language, but also fo your problem space.
				- This is the "ubiquitous language" from Eric Evans "Domain Driven Design"
			### Domain Based ("Business")
				- Be skeptical when you are spending more time solving technical requirements than business requirements
				- Pick tools, frameworks, runtimes, etc. that take the technical requirements away from your ability to fulfill business requirements
				- asdf
			
	
	## Four Rules of Simple Design (Kent Beck, Martin Fowler)
		1: Passes all the tests
		2: Reveals intention
		3: No duplication
		4: Fewest elements
		
		DRY - Don't repeat yourself
	
	## SOLID (Distillation of stuff, 'codified' by Robert C. Martin)
	
	### Single Responsibility Principle (SRP)
		- "Code modules should have a single axis of change" (single reason to change)
		
	### Open/Closed principle
		- Code modules should be open for extension but closed for modification
		- Find ways to make it so you rarely have to change existing code, instead you have ways to add new behavior and functionality by adding new stuff
	### Liskov Substitution Principle
		- "Derived types should be subsitutable for their base types"
		- Prefer composition over inheritance

	### Interface Segregation Principle
		- "Depend on small, client specific interfaces"
	
	### Dependency Inversion Principle
		- Depend on abstractions, not concretions
		- Our bank account relies on a "what", not a "how" (the bonus calculation)

		- "new is glue"
	
"YAGNI" - You ain't gonna need it!


# Test Doubles

## Feedback Loops Again (or, "Levels of Testing")

## Static Testing
That means yuou have things like a compiler. The compiler won't let you put code into production if it won't compile.
Warnings from the compiler - reawlly try not to ship any code that has compiler warnings.
(tools like "Linters" in TypeScript, JavaScript, etc.) are another set of "tests" at this level.
In terms of the feedback loop, almost INSTANT. You spell something wrong, whatever, you get the red squigglies. Fix it.

### Unit Testing

Your unit tests should be designed to just be a *little bit* slower than the compiler itself.

For example if your unit tests suite takes more than say 5-10 seconds to run, it isn't a super helpful inner loop.

### Integration Testing
This is where you test databases, networks, file systems, etc.
You automate the user (driver) of your application.

Often we *fake* the database, network, filesystem, etc. for different scenarios

These are slower. You won't run these as often.

### End-to-End Tests
The "real" tests - nothing is fakes (other than the user usually).


## Why Do We Use Them?

	- Sometimes we have to write code against a system, service, library and it doesn't even exist yet.
	- We have to simulate stuff that could happen in production environments to make sure our code responds to that properly.
		- SRE (Site reliability engineering)
		- "Simian Army" - "Chaos Monkey"

### Modes of Using Test Doubles
	- Dummies - almost don't even count. They don’t have anything to do with testing. Which is why we mostly use them when we are testing something that doesn't have anything to do with the code we are "doubling"
	- Stubs - for "state based" testing (Beckian Testing) - your dependency is something you "ask" or "query" things of and it changes your state based on the response.
	- Mocks - for Interaction testing ("Mockist" or "London School") which is "tell, don't ask"
	- Fakes - replace a real but expensive thing for testing purposes, like using a fake database or something. 
		- Only used in integration testing.

#### It is generally considered RUDE to make state public!