---
slug: intro-day2
title: Day 2 of Class 
author: Alex Roffey
tags: [Training, DotNet]
---

	Git = distributed version control. Done through handshakes & conventions 
    Every copy has all the history
    
        Tfs = centralized version control 
	
    Azure Dev Ops = uses Git, still supports tfs, but it is distributed, so it is sort of both distributed and centralized
	
	Microsoft owns git hub!
	
	Github CL prompts
		Gh repo create
	
	Pieces of .NET
		- Common Language Runtime 
			A runtime is a piece of software that runs our app
		- The Common Type System
			- Two basic types: 
				□ Value: value lives on the stack, defined by the struct
				□ Reference: value lives on the managed heap, defined by a class
		- The Framework Class Library
			- Big bundle of .net types provided by Microsoft for developing
	
	Intro to Unit Testing!
		
		Visual Studio Shortcuts
			CTRL+R, A = Run all tests
			CTRL+R, CTRL+A = Debug tests
			CTRL+R, T = Run just current test
			F12 = go to definition
			ALT + F12 = code peek
			CTRL  -    = go back
			CTRL .   = generates method stub
			Ctrl + ]  = goes to matching bracket
		
			[Fact] denotes a test
			[Theory] test that takes arguments
			[InlineData()]  can stack and run same test multiple times with different args
			
		In C# Data types are not variable! Once typed, they cannot change (type safe)
		
		Get around escape chars with a verbatim string: @"c:\testdata\newstuff\demo";
			
		Strings are always double quoted "asdf"
		Single characters are always single quotes 'M'
		
		Var = a compiler instruction that figures out the data type. Must be initialized!
		
	"Code Quality"
		"External Quality"
			- It meets the requirements
			- It does the right thing
		"Internal Quality"
			- The ability for it to be maintained over time
			- Coupling
				□ the strength of relationships between code "modules". How likely are you to break something if you modify in one place
				□ LOW (loose) coupling is what we want!
			- Cohesion: 
				□ How well things go together
				□ Can you find or locate what you need when there is a problem
	
	Test Driven Development
		Test first, to DESIGN your application

        Red > Green > Refactor (commit) > Red ....
			
		1. Start with a "meaningfully" failing unit test.
			i. Fails on the "assert"
		2. Get to green as fast as you can.
			i. Time box this: x minutes
			ii. Don’t worry about writing "good code". Crap code is A-OK and even preferred here
		3. Refactor - "make it good"
			
			
		_ before variable denotes a CLASS LEVEL variable ("Fields")


